user-guide: add more links to the .dvcignore guide from other docs. Subtask one completed (#1346)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/add.md

> treated as _changed_ by `dvc repro`, which always executes them. See `dvc run`
> to learn more about stage files.

> To avoid a file inside a directory being added accidentally, just add the
> corresponding [patterns](/doc/user-guide/dvcignore) in a `.dvcignore` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid adding files inside a directory accidentally, you can add the
corresponding [patterns](/doc/user-guide/dvcignore) in a `.dvcignore` file.
```

This way you bring data provenance and make your project
[reproducible](/doc/command-reference/repro).

To avoid tracking a file or directory, just add the corresponding
[patterns](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) in a `.dvcignore` file.

> 

Reviewer: OK but let's move this before "By default DVC tries to use reflinks" please.

Reviewer: Hmmm also I don't think this is correct. `dvc add target` adds the target whether or not it's in .dvcignore. This only prevents files inside directories from being added accidentally. Please update the note.

Reviewer: Let's also change it so you link to the Dvcignore user guide instead some Git web page.

tree. No top-level DVC-file is generated, which is typically less convenient.
For example, we cannot use the directory structure as one unit with `dvc run` or
other commands.

To untrack a file or directory just add
[patterns](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) (corresponding to the location of
file or directory) under `.dvcignore` file.

Let's create a sample script to understand this fact.

```dvc

> $ echo test_v1 >> test1.txt
> $ echo test_v1_1 >> test2.txt
> 
> $ dvc add test*

Reviewer: How about more general terms and file names here? Something like
```suggestion
$ echo foo > foo.txt
$ echo bar > bar.txt
$ dvc add foo.txt bar.txt
```
Also single `>` are enough for this example, I think. Also, no need for that extra line break.

Just a few small copy edits for readability.

Author: @jorgeorpinel  Yeah Sure ,I'am getting used to with documentation structure and styling of DVC and hence making mistakes. 
Btw thanks, I will include these changes .

Reviewer: These aren't mistakes per se, I'm just suggesting how this can be better. Looking fwd to your udpates.

```

With the above command DVC is now tracking `test1.txt` and `test2.txt`. Now
let's modify both of these files and add one of the tracked file to `.dvcignore`
file.

```dvc
$ echo test_v2 >> test1.txt
$ echo test_v2_2 >> test2.txt

> $ echo test1.txt.dvc >> .dvcignore

Reviewer: Oops. I don't think this is the point of .dvcignore. You shuoldn't add DVC-file to it, rather the underlying data file before using DVC commands such as `dvc add` above... Please read the Dvcignore documentation first and re-think the example a little.

Author: Oh sorry,I think I have understood it in a wrong manner. But I have seen (maybe did something wrong) that including only file in .dvcignore would not make DVC to ignore it. 
If adding directory to `dvc add` then there is no problem.

If adding directory :
![pehla_sach](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/46163196/82764155-68a9e080-9e2a-11ea-8804-568e1ca96a47.PNG)

Adding files specifically :
![dusra_sach](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/46163196/82764194-a6a70480-9e2a-11ea-9a28-865182d72f42.PNG)

Adding filles not a part of directory : 
![aakhri_sach](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/46163196/82764204-b292c680-9e2a-11ea-87ef-d944aabebd4a.PNG)

Reviewer: > If adding directory :

This example shows correct behavior. data1.txt is ignored by DVC. The rest of the directory gets added.

> Adding files specifically... Adding filles not a part of directory :

Yes, here you are specifically using the ignored file's path so DVC adds it anyway. It may not be intuitive but it's expected, I think. It works the same in Git. Please ask in Discord to confirm. You are also free to open an issue in this repo if this is not clearly explained in the Dvcignore documentation, and then we could address that later 🙂 

p.s. whether files are in a subdirectory or not doesn't change the result.

Reviewer: To really see the effects of adding a directory with some files in .dvcignore you have to explore the project cache adter running add. For example run `tree .dvc/cache` after your first example. You'll see only 2 files are cached, one corresponds to data2.txt and the other is a JSON file ending in `.dir` that represents the `data/` directory itself.

This mechanism is explained in the `dvc add` cmd ref I think, as well as in https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories and in https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/dvc-file-format

Author: >This mechanism is explained in the dvc add cmd ref I think, as well as in https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories and in https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/dvc-file-format

@jorgeorpinel  Yeah I have gone through the directory structure and that is clear to me . The only thing which is unclear is behaviour of `dvc add` w.r.t  `.dvcignore` when adding files directly. 
  
> Yes, here you are specifically using the ignored file's path so DVC adds it anyway. It may not be intuitive but it's expected, I think.It works the same in Git.

Yeah, so for now I will be trying to make my examples having following the current directory structure. 
> whether files are in a subdirectory or not doesn't change the result. 

Okay so I will try to just work through every issue following the directory structure.

Reviewer: > The only thing which is unclear is behaviour of dvc add w.r.t .dvcignore when adding files directly.

When specifically using the ignored file's path so DVC adds it anyway. It may not be intuitive but it's expected. It works the same in Git.

tree. No top-level DVC-file is generated, which is typically less convenient.
For example, we cannot use the directory structure as one unit with `dvc run` or
other commands.

## Example: Dvcignore

> To untrack a file or directory just add
> [patterns](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) associated with that file or
> directory under `.dvcignore` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid tracking a file or directory, just add the corresponding
[patterns](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) in a `.dvcignore` file.
```

Let's take an example to illustrate this.

```dvc
$ mkdir dir
$ echo file_one > dir/file1
$ echo file_two > dir/file2
```

> Now add `file1` to `.dvcignore` and track `dir` directory with `dvc add`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now add `file1` to `.dvcignore` and track the entire `dir` directory with
`dvc add`.
```

```dvc
$ echo dir/file1 > .dvcignore
$ dvc add dir

> $ cat .dvcignore
> dir/file1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> Let's now modify the file which we added to `.dvcignore` and run `dvc status`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's now modify `file1` (which is listed in `.dvcignore`) and run `dvc status`.
```

> $ mkdir Dir
> $ echo file_one > Dir/file1
> $ echo file_two > Dir/file2
> ```
> 
> Now add `file1` to `.dvcignore` and track `Dir` directory with `dvc add`.
> 
> ```dvc
> $ echo Dir/file1 > .dvcignore
> $ dvc add Dir
> $ cat .dvcignore
> Dir/file1
> ```
> 
> Let's now modify the file which we added to `.dvcignore` and run `dvc status`.
> 
> ```dvc
> $ echo file_one_changed > Dir/file1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ mkdir dir
$ echo file_one > dir/file1
$ echo file_two > dir/file2
```

Now add `file1` to `.dvcignore` and track `dir` directory with `dvc add`.

```dvc
$ echo dir/file1 > .dvcignore
$ dvc add dir
$ cat .dvcignore
dir/file1
```

Let's now modify the file which we added to `.dvcignore` and run `dvc status`.

```dvc
$ echo file_one_changed > dir/file1
```

$ dvc status
Data and pipelines are up to date.
```

> No change has been detected by `dvc status` and hence we can say that it has
> untracked `file1` sucessfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dvc status` ignores changes to files listed in `.dvcignore`.
```

Reviewer: Let's also add another part to explain this example after this paragraph showing that only `file2` is saved to the project cache please. The caching mechanism is explained in the `dvc add` cmd ref and the cache itself is explained in https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories and in https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/cache.

tree. No top-level DVC-file is generated, which is typically less convenient.
For example, we cannot use the directory structure as one unit with `dvc run` or
other commands.

To untrack a file or directory just add
[patterns](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) (corresponding to the location of
file or directory) under `.dvcignore` file.

Let's create a sample script to understand this fact.

```dvc
$ echo test_v1 >> test1.txt
$ echo test_v1_1 >> test2.txt

$ dvc add test*

100% Add|████████████████████████████████████████████|2/2 [00:04,  2.21s/file]

To track the changes with git, run:

>         git add .gitignore test1.txt.dvc test.txt.dvc

Reviewer: What is the `*` for? Typo perhaps?

Please remove the output from the example, we try to avoid those in general because DVC is in active development and output details tent to change  periodically. Docs are easier to maintain when command example output is omitted. Thanks

Author: As I have two files named test1.txt and test2.txt and hence to add both of them i did `dvc add test*` which adds all files whose first part is `test`. Although I could do `dvc add test1.txt test2.txt` but I found this to be more programmatical approach.

>Please remove the output from the example

Yeah sure.

Reviewer: > As I have two files named test1.txt and test2.txt

Ok got it, that's correct then, thanks.

> I could do dvc add test1.txt test2.txt

Yeah actually I like this better because it's more explicit. We want to be as simple and obvious as possible, no need for smart shortcuts in examples.

tree. No top-level DVC-file is generated, which is typically less convenient.
For example, we cannot use the directory structure as one unit with `dvc run` or
other commands.

## Example: Dvcignore

Let's take an example to illustrate how `.dvcignore` interacts with `dvc add`.

```dvc
$ mkdir dir
$ echo file_one > dir/file1
$ echo file_two > dir/file2
```

Now add `file1` to `.dvcignore` and track the entire `Dir` directory with
`dvc add`.

```dvc
$ echo Dir/file1 > .dvcignore
$ dvc add Dir

> ```

Reviewer: I had changed all the `Dir` to `dir` but now somehow there's a mix. Maybe a bad merge, did you have to solve conflicts at some point? Anyway, please use `dir` everywhere.

Author: > I had changed all the Dir to dir but now somehow there's a mix.
I guess

Reviewer: Thanks for using `dir` now.

No, Git is smart enough not to let you overwrite other people's changes unless you solve conflicts that way specifically and/or force-push.

Anyway, it's fixed now.

> Let's now modify `file1`(which is listed in `.dvcignore`) and run `dvc status`.

Reviewer: Missing a space here. My suggestion in https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/1346#discussion_r432967483 had the space. Suggestions can be easily applied from Github directly. Or copy-paste the full text. Please avoid re-typing stuff.
Also, let's use column at the end of this sentence:
```suggestion
Let's now modify `file1` (which is listed in `.dvcignore`) and run `dvc status`:
```
Thanks

```dvc
$ echo file_one_changed > dir/file1
$ dvc status
Data and pipelines are up to date.
```

`dvc status` ignores changes to files listed in `.dvcignore`. Let's have a look

> at cache directory.

Reviewer: Feels like these 2 sentences aren't related i.e. don't belong in the same paragraph. Please also use column `:` after the second one.

```dvc
$ tree .dvc/cache
.dvc/cache
├── 0a
│   └── ec3a687bd65c3e6a13e3cf20f3a6b2.dir
└── 52
    └── 4bcc8502a70ac49bf441db350eafc2
```

> Only checksums of directory(`Dir/`) and `file2` have been cached. See

Reviewer: "the checksums"
But actually let's use "the hash values" please.

> I'm also changing that term from the Dvcignore guide here: 3f2d554b

Reviewer: Also, missing another space in there...

Reviewer: Also, the 2 sentences are not related either. Please separate them even if each one is a separate paragraph, that's OK. Thanks

other commands.

> ## Example: Dvcignore

Reviewer: Hey @sarthakforwet I see you use the same commit message over and over in all your commits. This isn't a good practice, please check out our contribution guide again, there are guidelines about this. Thanks

Reviewer: Hmm I guess we don't have it in the docs contrib guide but it's in the core contrib guide here: https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/contributing/core#commit-message-format-guidelines

You can also see the messages in any of my commits, they all have some structure and context info. Sometimes the commit message is longer than the change itself.

Author: Okay, will remember it from next time. 😄

Reviewer: Thanks!
